README.md, before:

# Simon Setup

## Basic applications

Install latest Nobara version and run the *basic install* script

```bash
./basic_install.sh
```

## Nvidia Graphics

Instructions taken from [this thread](https://ask.fedoraproject.org/t/nvidia-drivers-on-fedora-36-rtx-2070-super/25243)

1. First remove all packages that may already be installed
    ```bash
    sudo dnf remove "*nvidia*"
    ```

2. Then insall the necessary packages
    ```bash
    sudo dnf install akmod-nvidia xorg-x11-drv-nvidia-cuda
    ```

3. Reboot

4. Check the output of those two commands

    ```bash
    dmesg | grep -iE 'nvidia|secure'
    lsmod | grep nvidia
    ```

    Also, try to run the following command

    ```bash
    nvidia-smi
    ```

### Nvitop

Install [nvitop](https://github.com/XuehaiPan/nvitop) to monitor CPU, GPU and memory usage with the terminal.

```bash
sudo pip3 install --upgrade nvitop
```

To run as resource monitor:

```bash
nvitop -m
```

## Docker

Run the script to install Docker and Docker Compose.

```bash
./docker_install.sh
```

Based on [this documentation](https://docs.docker.com/engine/install/fedora/)

### Nvidia Container Toolkit

As it is not official supported on Fedora, it is necessary to use the CentOS 8 version

To do this, follow the instructions from [this issue](https://github.com/NVIDIA/nvidia-docker/issues/706#issuecomment-851816502)

If needed, also check the oficial [Nvidia documentation](https://docs.nvidia.com/datacenter/cloud-native/container-toolkit/install-guide.html#supported-platforms)

To test if everything is working fine, run the following command

```bash
docker run --rm --gpus all nvidia/cuda:11.0.3-base-ubuntu20.04 nvidia-smi
```

## Headset fix

Open the file `/etc/modprobe.d/alsa-base.conf` and add this line in the end.

```
# Custom
options snd-hda-intel model=headset-mic,dell-headset-multi
```

Now reboot and test if the headset choose pop-up appears when plugged.

## SSH Keys

Run the following script an add the copied key to GitHub.

```bash
./git_ssh_config.sh
```

## Keyboard Shorcuts

Run the following script to configure keyboard shortcuts using dconf.

```bash
./change_keybindings.sh
```

For extra shortcuts, add then using GNOME Settings application.

## Alacritty

First, set alacritty to be the default terminal application

```bash
gsettings set org.gnome.desktop.default-applications.terminal exec /usr/bin/alacritty
gsettings set org.gnome.desktop.default-applications.terminal exec-arg "-x"
```

After that, add command as the `<Super>Return` keyboard shortcut

```bash
alacritty
```

## Wofi

Add command as the `<Super>Space` keyboard shortcut

```bash
wofi -S drun
```

Style based on [synaptiko/.files](https://github.com/synaptiko/.files/blob/master/wofi/style.css)

## Nautilus

Add command as the `<Super>f` keyboard shortcut

```bash
nautilus --new-window
```

## VSCode

Add command as the `<Super>c` keyboard shortcut

```bash
code
```

## Discord

Install the WebCord, so that screensharing works properly on wayland.

```bash
flatpak install flathub io.github.spacingbat3.webcord
```

After installing, remember to give mic and camera permissions on `Files > Settings`

## Settings

### Multitasking

- Disable hot corner and screen edges
- Set fixed workspaces to 9
- Workspaces on all displays
- Include applications from current workspace only

### Mouse and touchpad

- Enable tap to click

## Tweaks

### Windows

- Center new windows
- Click to Focus

## Extensions

### User installed
- Simply workspaces
- Vitals

### System extensions
- AppIndicator and KStatusNotierItem Support
- Application Volume Mixer
- Blur my Shell
- Clipboard History
- Freon
- Just Perfection
- Pop Shell
- Sound input & output device chooser

## STMicoreletronics

### ARM GCC

First, install dependencies.

```bash
sudo dnf install libncurses5
```

Then, download latest *GNU Arm Embedded Toolchain* from the [Arm Developer website](https://developer.arm.com/tools-and-software/open-source-software/developer-tools/gnu-toolchain/gnu-rm/downloads). Extract it in the desired location (`/usr/local` for exemple) and add it to PATH.

```bash
sudo tar xjf gcc-arm-none-eabi-10.3-2021.10-x86_64-linux.tar.bz2 -C /usr/local
```

### STM32CubeMX

Download latest version from the [STM32CubeMX website](https://www.st.com/b/en/development-tools/stm32cubemx.html) and extract the zip folder. Give the setup file the necessary permissions and run it as sudo.

```bash
chmod 777 SetupSTM32CubeMX-6.4.0
sudo ./SetupSTM32CubeMX-6.4.0
```

### STM32CubeProgrammer

Download latest version from the [STM32CubeProgrammer website](https://www.st.com/en/development-tools/stm32cubeprog.html) and extract the zip folder. Give the setup file the necessary permissions and run it as sudo.

```bash
chmod 777 SetupSTM32CubeProgrammer-2.9.0.linux
sudo ./SetupSTM32CubeProgrammer-2.9.0.linux
```

Now, install `libusb` to handle USB devices .

```bash
sudo dnf install libusb-1.0-0-dev
```

Then copy the rules files in the CubeProgrammer installation folder to `/etc/udev/rules.d`.

```bash
cd /usr/local/STMicroelectronics/STM32Cube/STM32CubeProgrammer/Drivers/rules/
sudo cp *.* /etc/udev/rules.d
```

### STM32CubeMonitor

**TODO**

### JLink

**TODO**

## Aditional configurations

### Automount

Use the **GNOME Disk** to configure the data partition to be automounted at login. Then it is possible to add bookmarks in Nautilus for the folders there

### Firefox

Follow [this tutorial](https://superuser.com/questions/1557955/how-to-remove-firefox-orange-microphone-webcam-indicator-from-the-top-of-the-scr) to remove the icon showing when mic and camera are beeing used. This is necessary because they aren't reconized as pop-ups from pop shell, and will be added to the auto-tiling

### VSCode

- Theme [Horizon](https://github.com/alexandernanberg/horizon-theme-vscode)
- Open settings and add 'FiraCode Nerd Font' to the start of the list

### Gedit

In preferences, disable the *Highlight current line* option and select the *Tango* color scheme.

## References

- Color palette [Horizon](https://horizontheme.netlify.app/).

Commit message:

✨ Add spotify instalation - Remove final dots

README.md, after:

# Simon Setup

## Basic applications

Install latest Nobara version and run the *basic install* script

```bash
./basic_install.sh
```

## Nvidia Graphics

Instructions taken from [this thread](https://ask.fedoraproject.org/t/nvidia-drivers-on-fedora-36-rtx-2070-super/25243)

1. First remove all packages that may already be installed
    ```bash
    sudo dnf remove "*nvidia*"
    ```

2. Then insall the necessary packages
    ```bash
    sudo dnf install akmod-nvidia xorg-x11-drv-nvidia-cuda
    ```

3. Reboot

4. Check the output of those two commands

    ```bash
    dmesg | grep -iE 'nvidia|secure'
    lsmod | grep nvidia
    ```

    Also, try to run the following command

    ```bash
    nvidia-smi
    ```

### Nvitop

Install [nvitop](https://github.com/XuehaiPan/nvitop) to monitor CPU, GPU and memory usage with the terminal

```bash
sudo pip3 install --upgrade nvitop
```

To run as resource monitor:

```bash
nvitop -m
```

## Docker

Run the script to install Docker and Docker Compose

```bash
./docker_install.sh
```

Based on [this documentation](https://docs.docker.com/engine/install/fedora/)

### Nvidia Container Toolkit

As it is not official supported on Fedora, it is necessary to use the CentOS 8 version

To do this, follow the instructions from [this issue](https://github.com/NVIDIA/nvidia-docker/issues/706#issuecomment-851816502)

If needed, also check the oficial [Nvidia documentation](https://docs.nvidia.com/datacenter/cloud-native/container-toolkit/install-guide.html#supported-platforms)

To test if everything is working fine, run the following command

```bash
docker run --rm --gpus all nvidia/cuda:11.0.3-base-ubuntu20.04 nvidia-smi
```

## Headset fix

Open the file `/etc/modprobe.d/alsa-base.conf` and add this line in the end

```
# Custom
options snd-hda-intel model=headset-mic,dell-headset-multi
```

Now reboot and test if the headset choose pop-up appears when plugged

## SSH Keys

Run the following script an add the copied key to GitHub

```bash
./git_ssh_config.sh
```

## Keyboard Shorcuts

Run the following script to configure keyboard shortcuts using dconf

```bash
./change_keybindings.sh
```

For extra shortcuts, add then using GNOME Settings application

## Alacritty

First, set alacritty to be the default terminal application

```bash
gsettings set org.gnome.desktop.default-applications.terminal exec /usr/bin/alacritty
gsettings set org.gnome.desktop.default-applications.terminal exec-arg "-x"
```

After that, add command as the `<Super>Return` keyboard shortcut

```bash
alacritty
```

## Wofi

Add command as the `<Super>Space` keyboard shortcut

```bash
wofi -S drun
```

Style based on [synaptiko/.files](https://github.com/synaptiko/.files/blob/master/wofi/style.css)

## Nautilus

Add command as the `<Super>f` keyboard shortcut

```bash
nautilus --new-window
```

## VSCode

Add command as the `<Super>c` keyboard shortcut

```bash
code
```

## Discord

Install the WebCord, so that screensharing works properly on wayland

```bash
flatpak install flathub io.github.spacingbat3.webcord
```

After installing, remember to give mic and camera permissions on `Files > Settings`

## Spotify

Install from flathub using the following command

```bash
sudo flatpak install flathub com.spotify.Client
```

## Settings

### Multitasking

- Disable hot corner and screen edges
- Set fixed workspaces to 9
- Workspaces on all displays
- Include applications from current workspace only

### Mouse and touchpad

- Enable tap to click

## Tweaks

### Windows

- Center new windows
- Click to Focus

## Extensions

### User installed
- Simply workspaces
- Vitals

### System extensions
- AppIndicator and KStatusNotierItem Support
- Application Volume Mixer
- Blur my Shell
- Clipboard History
- Freon
- Just Perfection
- Pop Shell
- Sound input & output device chooser

## STMicoreletronics

### ARM GCC

First, install dependencies.

```bash
sudo dnf install libncurses5
```

Then, download latest *GNU Arm Embedded Toolchain* from the [Arm Developer website](https://developer.arm.com/tools-and-software/open-source-software/developer-tools/gnu-toolchain/gnu-rm/downloads). Extract it in the desired location (`/usr/local` for exemple) and add it to PATH

```bash
sudo tar xjf gcc-arm-none-eabi-10.3-2021.10-x86_64-linux.tar.bz2 -C /usr/local
```

### STM32CubeMX

Download latest version from the [STM32CubeMX website](https://www.st.com/b/en/development-tools/stm32cubemx.html) and extract the zip folder. Give the setup file the necessary permissions and run it as sudo

```bash
chmod 777 SetupSTM32CubeMX-6.4.0
sudo ./SetupSTM32CubeMX-6.4.0
```

### STM32CubeProgrammer

Download latest version from the [STM32CubeProgrammer website](https://www.st.com/en/development-tools/stm32cubeprog.html) and extract the zip folder. Give the setup file the necessary permissions and run it as sudo

```bash
chmod 777 SetupSTM32CubeProgrammer-2.9.0.linux
sudo ./SetupSTM32CubeProgrammer-2.9.0.linux
```

Now, install `libusb` to handle USB devices

```bash
sudo dnf install libusb-1.0-0-dev
```

Then copy the rules files in the CubeProgrammer installation folder to `/etc/udev/rules.d`

```bash
cd /usr/local/STMicroelectronics/STM32Cube/STM32CubeProgrammer/Drivers/rules/
sudo cp *.* /etc/udev/rules.d
```

### STM32CubeMonitor

**TODO**

### JLink

**TODO**

## Aditional configurations

### Automount

Use the **GNOME Disk** to configure the data partition to be automounted at login. Then it is possible to add bookmarks in Nautilus for the folders there

### Firefox

Follow [this tutorial](https://superuser.com/questions/1557955/how-to-remove-firefox-orange-microphone-webcam-indicator-from-the-top-of-the-scr) to remove the icon showing when mic and camera are beeing used. This is necessary because they aren't reconized as pop-ups from pop shell, and will be added to the auto-tiling

### VSCode

- Theme [Horizon](https://github.com/alexandernanberg/horizon-theme-vscode)
- Open settings and add 'FiraCode Nerd Font' to the start of the list

### Gedit

In preferences, disable the *Highlight current line* option and select the *Tango* color scheme

## References

- Color palette [Horizon](https://horizontheme.netlify.app/)
